## Entrypoint {docsify-ignore-all}

The final **required** piece of any actions metadata is the entrypoint which is defined by the **runs** keyword. The main purpose of the entrypoint is to define which application the actions code will be executed with as well as the path to the actions source code. Other parameters are available for use in the **runs** block of the `action.yml` metadata file. These parameters vary depending on the type of action you are writing.

### JavaScript Actions

When writing custom JavaScript actions the **runs** keyword has three parameters available to it:

- **using:** A **required** parameter defining the application to be used to execute the code.
- **main:** A **required** parameter defining the file, including path, containing the code to be executed.
- **env:** An **optional** parameter defining a key/value map of environment variables to be set inside the runners virtual environment.

`action.yml`

```yaml
runs:
  using: "node12"
  main: "build/index.js"
  env:
    somevar: "some value"
```

### Docker Container Actions

Docker container actions have a different set of parameter available to the **runs** keyword.

- **using:** A **required** parameter that **must** be set to `docker`
- **image:** A **required** parameter specifying the docker images to create a container from. This value can either be the base image name to an existing Docker container or a `Dockerfile` located in the repository.
- **env:** An **optional** parameter defining a key/value map of environment variables to be set inside the container environment.
- **entrypoint:** An **optional** parameter to override the Docker `ENTRYPOINT` specified in a `Dockerfile`. This value also sets a value if one was not already specified. [**Dockerfile support for GitHub Actions**](https://help.github.com/en/actions/building-actions/dockerfile-support-for-github-actions/#entrypoint).
- **args:** An **Optional** parameter defining an array of strings that define the inputs for a Docker container. Inputs can include hardcoded strings. GitHub passes the args to the container's `ENTRYPOINT` when the container starts up.

<div class="custom-info-box">

The args are used in place of the <b>CMD</b> instruction in a <b>Dockerfile</b>. If you use <b>CMD</b> in your <b>Dockerfile</b>, use the guidelines ordered by preference:

1. Document required arguments in the action's <b>README</b> and omit them from the <b>CMD</b> instruction.
1. Use defaults that allow using the action without specifying any args.
1. If the action exposes a <b>- -help</b> flag, or something similar, use that to make your action self-documenting.
1. If you need to pass environment variables into an action, make sure your action runs a command shell to perform variable substitution. For example, if your <b>ENTRYPOINT</b> attribute is set to <b>"sh -c"</b>, args will be run in a command shell. Alternatively, if your <b>Dockerfile</b> uses an <b>ENTRYPOINT</b> to run the same command <b>("sh -c")</b>, args will execute in a command shell.

</div>

`action.yml`

```yaml
runs:
  using: 'docker'
  image: 'Dockerfile'
  args:
    - 'foo'
    - 'bar'

OR

runs:
  using: 'docker'
  image: 'docker://nginx:latest'
  args:
    - ${{inputs.some_defined_input}}
```

<p class='custom-info-box'>
Along with the keywords we covered, you can also supply <b>branding</b> to any actions you create. Branding an action is outside of our scope for detailed coverage, if you wish to learn more <a href="https://help.github.com/en/actions/building-actions/metadata-syntax-for-github-actions#branding" target="_blank"><b>visit the documentation on branding</b></a>.

👈Continue to learn more about the runner environment!
